in this and in the next set of videos
I'd like to tell you about a learning
algorithm called a neural network we're
going to first talk about the
representation and then in the next set
of videos talk about learning algorithms
forward neural networks is actually a
pretty old idea but had fallen out of
favor for a while but today it is the
state of the art technique for many
different machine learning problems so
why do we need yet another learning
algorithm we already have linear
regression and we have logistic
regressions so why do we need you know
neural networks in order to motivate the
discussion of neural networks let me
start by showing you a few examples of
machine learning problems where we need
to learn complex nonlinear hypotheses
consider a supervised learning
classification problem where you have a
training set like this if you want to
apply the just a progression to this
problem one thing you could do is apply
logistic regression with a lot of
nonlinear features like that so here G
as usual is a sigmoid function and we
can include lots of polynomial terms
like these and if you include in a
polynomial terms then you know maybe you
can get a hypothesis that separates the
positive and negative examples
this particular method works well when
you have only say two features x1 and x2
because you can then include all those
polynomial terms of x1 and x2 but for
many interesting machine learning
problems would have a lot more features
than just two we've been talking for a
while about housing prediction and
suppose you have a housing
classification problem rather than a
regression problem like maybe if you
have different features of a house and
you want to predict one of the odds that
the house will be sold within the next
six months so that would be a
classification problem
and as we saw we can come up with the
quite a lot of features maybe a hundred
different features of different houses
for a problem like this if you were to
include all the quadratic terms all of
these are even all the quadratic that is
the second-order polynomial terms
there'll be a lot of them they'll be
terms like X 1 squared X 1 X 2 X 1 X 3
you have X 1 X 4 up to X 1 X 1 100 and
then you have X 2 squared X 2 X 3 and so
on and if you include just the
second-order terms that is the terms
that are a product of you know two of
these terms x1 times x2 and so on then
for the case of N equals 100 you end up
with about 5,000 features and
asymptotically the number of quadratic
features grows roughly as order N
squared where n is the number of the
original features like X 1 3 X 100 that
we had and in this actually closer to N
squared over 2 so including all the
quadratic features doesn't seem like it
may be a good idea because that's a lot
of features and you might end up
overfitting the training set and it can
also be computationally expensive to
have you know to be working with that
many features one thing you could do is
include only a subset of these so if you
include only the features x1 squared x2
squared x3 squared up to maybe X 100
squared then the number of features is
much smaller here you have only you know
100 such quadratic features but this is
not enough features and certainly won't
let you for the data set like that on
the upper left
in fact them if you include only these
quadratic features together with the
original x1
so on up to X 100 features then you
can't actually fit very interesting
hypotheses or you can fit things like
you know X's align ellipses like these
but you can't you certainly cannot fit a
more complex data set like that shown
here so 505,000 features seems like a
lot if you were to include the cubic or
third order polynomial features the X 1
X 2 X 3 you know x1 squared x2 X 10 X 11
X 17 and so on you can imagine there
going to be a lot of these features in
fact they're going to be order n cubed
such features and if N equals 100 you
cannot compute that you end up with on
the order of about 170,000 such cubic
features and so including these higher
order polynomial features when your
original feature set n is large this
really dramatically blows up your
feature space and this doesn't seem like
a good way to come up with additional
features with which to build nonlinear
classifiers when n is large for many
machine learning problems and will be
pretty large here's an example let's
consider the problem of computer vision
and suppose you want to use machine
learning to train a classifier to
examine an image and tell us whether or
not it is the image is a car many people
wonder why computer vision could be
difficult I mean when you and I look at
this picture is so obvious what this is
you wonder how is it that the learning
algorithm could possibly fail to know
what this picture is to understand why
computer vision is hard and let's zoom
into a small part of the image like that
area where the little red rectangle is
it turns out that where you and I see a
car the computer sees that what it sees
is this matrix which is a grid of pixel
intensity values that tells us the
brightness of each pixel in the image so
the computer vision problem is to
look at this matrix of pixel intensity
values and tell us that these numbers
represent the door handle of a car
concretely when we use machine learning
to build a car detector what we do is we
come up with a label training set with
let's say a few label examples of calls
and if you label the examples of things
that are not cars then we give our
training set to the learning algorithm
train a classifier and then you know we
may test it and show the new image in us
what is this new thing and hopefully
recognize that that is a car to
understand why we need nonlinear
hypotheses let's take a look at some of
the images of cars and maybe non cause
that we might feed to our learning
algorithm let's pick a couple pixel
locations in our images so let's pixel
one location in pixel two location and
let's plot this car you know at the
location at a certain point depending on
the intensities of pixel 1 and pixel 2
and let's do this a few other images so
let's take a different example of a car
and here look at the same two pixel
locations and that image has a different
intensity for pixel one and the
different intensity for pixel two so it
ends up in a different location on the
figure and then let's plot some negative
examples as well there's an on car
that's an on car and if we do this for
more and more examples using the pluses
to denote calls and minuses to no non
cause what we'll find is that the calls
are non calls end up lying in different
regions of this space and what we need
therefore is some sort of nonlinear
hypotheses to try to separate out the
two causes what is the dimension of the
feature space suppose we were to use
just 50 by 50 pixel images now that
suppose our images were pretty small
ones just 50 pixels on the side then we
would have 2500 pixels and so the
dimension of our feature size will be N
equals 2500 where our feature vector X
list of all the pixel intensities you
know the pixel brightness of a pixel 1
the brightness of pixel 2 and so on down
to the pixel brightness of the last
pixel where you know in a typical
computer representation each of these
may be values between say 0 to 255 if it
gives us maybe grayscale value so we
have N equals 2500 if and that's if we
were using grayscale images if we were
using RGB images with separate red green
and blue values we'd have N equals 7500
so if we were to try to learn nonlinear
hypotheses by including all the
quadratic features that is all the terms
of the form Y or X I times XJ well with
2500 pixels we will end up with a total
of 3 million features and that's just
too large to be reasonable will be
computationally very expensive to find
and to represent all of these three
million features per training example
so simple logistic regression together
with adding in maybe the quadratic or
the cubic features that's just not a
good way to learn complex nonlinear
hypotheses when n is large because you
just end up with too many features in
the next few videos I'd like to tell you
about neural networks which turns out to
be a much better way to the complex
hypotheses complex nonlinear hypotheses
even when your input features phase even
when n is large and along the way I'll
also get to show you a couple of fun
videos of historically important
applications of neural networks as well
that I hope those those videos that
we'll see later will be fun for you to
watch as well